AutoDraft Training
AutoDraft Function in Draft Software
AutoDraft is a useful tool that allows drafters to increase their productivity with the assistance
of AI. The AutoDraft tool is broken down into modularized steps which reflect the key
processes in the workflow when manually drafting. This modularization will also allow drafters
to increase accuracy of the final product by allowing and encouraging multiple checks during
the AI process.
Drafters are expected to utilize the AutoDraft feature for all files so an understanding of the
processes and limitations of this tool is crucial to the success of all staff. It is also important to
note that AI will not replace drafters and that AutoDraft is only a tool to help staff increase
the rate at which they can create iGUIDE floor plans.

Overview

Figure 1 - AutoDraft Tool
1. Run AI for Walls - This operation will generate all walls and some lines for the floor.
Structural D7 lines are not created during this step. Premium object D8 lines will be
drafted during this step but will remain hidden (cached).
2. Run AI for Room Labels - During this operation the room labels will be applied and
auto placed.
3. Run AI for Door/Windows - The AI will select and place all appropriate doors and
windows.
1

4. Run AI for Stairs - Stairs will be generated where applicable.
5. Run AI for Premium Objects - Premium object D8 Lines generated during Run AI for
Walls will be shown here. Premium objects will be placed.
6. Mark Rooms for Reviewing - All rooms will have a yellow overlay to allow drafters to
effectively check all drafted spaces. Pressing C while hovering the mouse over a yellow
shaded room will clear the area and remove the overlay.
The typical process when utilizing the AutoDraft function will use every single feature from 1 to
6 with the potential exception of 5, depending on if the property is premium or not. It is
important that drafters check and correct everything generated by the AI between each step.

AutoDrafted Files from the Portal
Files that are downloaded from the Portal will have a preliminary floor plan drafted using
AutoDraft. The success of the AutoDraft is extremely reliant on the quality of the alignment of
the scans, meaning that if an operator has insufficiently aligned the property, the AutoDrafted
file will be inaccurate. This will result in the drafter having to rerun the AI automation to
recreate the floor plan after correctly aligning the property.

Process for AutoDraft
There are three different scenarios that are likely to occur when a file is downloaded from the
Portal. Each scenario will trigger a different set of processes that will need to be followed to
draft the property in the most optimal manner.
One constant that remains the same between all three scenarios is checking what the
AutoDraft has produced. It is very important to not make any assumptions and to confirm that
what the AI has created is correct and accurate.

2

Misaligned Scans
The most frequent issue drafters will encounter is a property that is incorrectly aligned by the
operator. In this scenario, because the scans are misaligned, the AutoDrafted floor plans will
be inaccurate as it was drafted using misaligned data. It will be important that drafters align
the property correctly and rerun all of the AI processes to regenerate the floorplan accurately.
1. Press K to hide the floor plan generated by AI.
2. Perform the standard process to align using the Edit Floor Mode (F1 & F2) and Edit
Scan Mode (M1 & M2).

Figure 2 - Aligned property with walls hidden
3. Run AI for walls which will delete the previously generated floor plan and create a new
AutoDrafted floor.

3

Figure 3 - Run AI for Walls
a. Use Edit Mode (E) to correct all walls and lines such that they are drafted to
appropriate visual and laser data.
b. Draft exterior areas not generated by AutoDraft.

4

Figure 4 - All walls and lines corrected. Exterior area drafted
4. Run AI for Room Labels and correct where necessary. Confirm Piece count in
bathrooms, select Primary bedroom where appropriate and pick optimal labels when
OTHER is decided by the AI.
a. Review all rooms during this stage and modify area flags as necessary. Be sure to
utilize Inspect Area to confirm that all area flags have been correctly set.

5

Figure 5 - Corrections after Run AI for Room Labels
5. Run AI for Door/Windows to generate all windows and doors. The AI will select the
optimal door type and orient the door correctly to the visual and laser data.
a. Correct door types and placement of doors and windows where necessary.

Figure 5 - Corrections after Run AI for Door/Windows
6

6. Run AI for Stairs will generate stairs based on the labeled area. Meaning, if no areas
have been labeled as either Stairs UP or Stairs DN, no stairs will be generated by the AI.
a. The AI to generate stairs will struggle to draft shapes more complex than straight
stairs. Additional drafting will be required with U, L, curved and spiral staircases.

Figure 6 - Completed run of stairs after Run AI for Stairs
7. Depending on if the property is premium or not, now would be the time to Run AI for
Premium Objects
a. Note that the D8 lines if deleted and the AI for Premium Objects is rerun, the
D8 lines will not be generated. This means that it is best to modify the lines that
have been created by the AI.
i.

Deleted fixture objects will be replaced when performing Run AI for
Premium Objects.

b. Check the orientation of all objects and the accuracy of all premium object lines
before continuing.

Figure 7 - Corrected Run AI for Premium Objects
7

8. Check all of the rooms drafted on the floor with Mark Rooms for Review. This will
place a yellow overlay over all areas that are required to be checked. Once the area or
room has been checked for accuracy, press C to clear the yellow overlay.
a. This step is highly encouraged to help drafters find and correct any remaining
errors.
b. Review each scan in a room to confirm correct wall types and thicknesses, room
labels and flags, door sizing and type, window and door placements, and objects.
c. During this step of the process, it is the best practice to place any finishing
touches that AutoDraft did not produce.
i.

Standard O1 or O2 structural objects, stair runs less than 3’ in height that
don’t require area divisions, etc.

Large and Complex Floor Plans
Not every property will be successfully AutoDrafted and this becomes apparent with large floor
plans. AutoDraft will struggle to produce accurate floor plans for properties with more than 75
scans or greater than 5000 square feet. Drafters may be inclined to edit or modify features
created by the AI, however, depending on the size and complexity of the property, manually
drafting the file will be the more appropriate choice. It is up to the drafter to determine
whether AutoDraft will assist or hinder them when confronted with a large or complex
property.

Correctly Aligned Scans
As mentioned previously, the pregenerated AutoDraft from the Portal is extremely dependent
on the quality of the alignment performed by the operator. It is possible, although unlikely that
an operator will upload a correctly aligned and oriented property. In this case, the AutoDrafted
file from the Portal should be very accurate, but the drafter will still be required to check and
make any necessary corrections.
1. Press K to hide the floor plan generated by AI and confirm accurate alignment.
2. Skip all Run AI processes and proceed to Mark Rooms for Review to review the
generated AutoDrafted floor plan.
a. In this situation the drafter will be considered very lucky as AutoDrafted has
taken a large burden off of their workload. Use the time saved through
AutoDraft to thoroughly check the floorplan and correct any errors or
inaccuracies created by the AI.

8

Known AutoDraft Limitations
AutoDraft is a tool that helps to speed up the drafting process by using AI to generate a
preliminary floor plan but there are certain limitations of this feature. As mentioned above,
AutoDraft does a good job of getting the floor plan to a state where drafters should need to
make minor corrections, additional drafting, and object placement. Below are the areas
drafters need to target when producing floor plans to cover the limitations of AutoDraft.
●

Property/File size
○

Files greater than 5000 sqft or containing more than 75 scans will have reduced
AutoDraft capabilities.

●

Property Type
○

CRE: AutoDraft AI models were trained with residential inputs. AutoDraft may
struggle with commercial floor plans (retail environments, office facilities,
warehouses, etc).

○

AEC: AutoDraft could work for an AEC selected property type but its
requirements for wall thicknesses, window types & guidelines are more strict
and may require too many additional edits to warrant utilizing AI.

●

Stair Shapes
○

U, L, curved and spiral staircases need to be manually drafted.
■

Note: AutoDraft will successfully label these areas when Run AI for
Stairs is performed.

○

Minor stairs will sometimes be omitted or drafted as a separate area. If the
staircase is less than 3 feet in height or less than 4 steps high, an area division is
not needed.

●

Curved and angled walls
○

●

Ledges
○

●

●

Often incomplete when drafted or using a mixture of line types.

Half Walls and Railing Walls
○

●

Curved and angled walls will often be drafted as straight lines or at 45° angles.

Placement and shape are inconsistent.

Standard objects
○

Standard O1 and O2 type objects will not be placed.

○

Premium objects will be drafted with Run AI for Premium Objects.

Area Flags
○

AutoDraft will not set area flags or select standard labels with optional area flags.
The standard label will always be selected.
■

Example: Utility will be selected instead of Utility (Unfinished) regardless
of the actual finish of the space.

●

Exterior Areas
9

○

Outdoor areas such as deck, patio, balcony, porch will not be drafted.

It is crucial that drafters perform the Mark Area for Inspection operation to confirm that the
property is correctly drafted and adheres to iGUIDE standards. By building familiarity with the
limitations of AutoDraft, drafters will be able to quickly recognize specific areas and features
that require additional attention.

10

